# Directories

## add-to-kibana
This contains two scripts for adding dashboards to kibana through the API. This allows you to see the traffic on the network on the Security onion VM (explained below).

# Adding QEMU image templates in gns3
Most of the machines on the virtual network are run on either QEMU or docker. To add a QEMU machine to a gns3 network, either through the API or the GUI, you will need to add a template for it to gns3. To add a template, go to file > new template. Click next, then select the appropriate machine. Download and import the required files for the version you want (most likely the lastest version). With the version selected, click next again. Finally, click finish. You will now be able to access the image through the button on the left corresponding to the category of the machine. 

# Network setup
In order to generate traffic, you will need to have a virtual network with servers that the useragent can interact with. Currently, these consist of a print server, an email server, and a network attached storage server. This tutorial explains how to create these servers on a gns3 network. You will need to have docker installed on the machine running the network. 

## Pfsense config
To configure pfsense, open a browser on the network connected to it, and type its ip address into the search bar. For the default template on brass, that ip is 192.168.1.1.
-------
WARNING
--------
The devices in this repository are build to assume that there is a router with ip address 192.168.1.1. Change this IP at your own risk!

The username is admin, and the password is pfsense. There will be a warning at the top informing you that the router still has the default username and password; this can be safely ignored on an isolated virtual network. The default domain for the router is luked.com. 

### DNS
To configure the DNS resolver, click the three lines at the top right corner. In the drop-down menu that appears, click services > DNS resolver. The options you will need to be concerned with are listed below.

#### Enable
Whether DNS is allowed on the server. This _must_ be on.

#### Network Interfaces
Which interfaces respond to DNS requests. Set this to all. 

#### Outgoing Network Interfaces
Which interface is used to find other DNS servers. Set to All or WAN.

#### DHCP Registration
Clients tell the server their hostname when requesting an IP address from the DHCP server. This will allow you to ping anything on the network by typing the command

    ping <hostname>.<domain>

#### Static DHCP
Allows mapping clients with a specific name to a specific IP address. Something similar can be achieved through the DHCP Static Mappings for this Interface option under Services > DHCP server, though this will require knowledge of the client's MAC address.

### Setup 
  In order to share data, the server will need to be told to set up a share using the service appropriate for the Operating Systems used by other machines on the network. The freeNAS.py script uses nfs, which is used for UNIX operating systems such as linux. The FreeNAS template on brass already has version 11.3-U4 of the FreeNAS OS installed. It also has a pool, dataset, and share, but these were not saved properly and will not function. As such, you will need to use the netBuilder/freeNAS.py script to set up a working area to store data. To run the script, type the following command.
  
    python3 <location of repo>/trafficGen/netBuilder/freeNAS.py
  If it does not work, check to make sure that the domain of the router is luked.com. If it is something else, modify the script accordingly. This script should function from any computer on a network with the FreeNAS VM, as long as the root password has not be modified. Once the script has been run successfully, it should display several json objects, representing the objects created by the script. The comments and doc strings within freeNAS.py will give a more detailed run down of how the objects are being created. 

### Usage
  Once the freeNAS.py script has been executed, any machine with the nfs-common package installed should be capable of interacting with the new share. Type the following commands to access the share:
  
    service nfs-common start
    mount FreeNAS.luked.com:/mnt/tank/MyShare /mnt
  After running these commands, any files added to or deleted from the directory /mnt will be added to the appropriate dataset on the FreeNAS server. Any other machines with the dataset mounted will see the changes occur in real time. To unmount the dataset, in order to modify it or for some other reason, type the following command. Note that this will not work if the current working directory is /mnt.
  
    umount /mnt

# Security Onion
If you wish to visualize the data generated by this traffic, you will need to run Kibana on securityonion. First, download the securityonion template from the gns3 server. Right click the template and click 'configure template'. In the RAM: field, you will want 8-16 GB, depending on what you can spare. If you have the resources, change the vCPUs field to 2 to give the box 2 cores. Now add it to your network and start it. Run through the setup process, which the securityonion should lead you through.

### Add all dashboards through UI
Once securityonion is set up, open kibana with the shortcut on your desktop, type the username and password you created for sguil and squert during setup (The one that required a 6+ character password). Now there should be several tabs on the left. If you are not there already, go to the management tab. There should be a small button labeld 'saved objects' on the left of the screen. Click on it, and click the import button at the top-right corner. Clone this repository. Click import in the box in the kibana UI, and select the netBuilder/export.json file in this repository. Click the blue import button. This process will take a significant amount of time. When finished this will add all dashboards and visualizations necessary to pivot from squert.

### Add dashboards through API
To add dashboards throught the API, use the add.sh script on a json file containing a dashboard object, along with associated visualizations and index patterns. A list of dashboards used for pivoting from squert can be found at github.com/Security-Onion-Solutions/securityonion-elastic.

### addall.sh
If placed in the same directory as add.sh, this script will attempt to add all json files in the current directory to kibana. Non dashboard object json files will also be attempted, but will most likely fail, which will not interupt the script. However, it is recommended that all json files in the directory with this script conatin dashboard objects and associated data, in order to avoid adding other unwanted objects.
 
# Copying configurations
re-configuring the securityonion, FreeNAS, and pfsense virtual machines every time you need a new network would be time-consuming. Instead, use the addDisk/addDisk.sh script save the disk of your configured device. Then, configure the templates by right-clicking them in the appropriate menu in the gns3 GUI, go to HDD and change the top disk image to whatever you saved the disk as (the third argument to addDisk.sh).
 
# Docker containers
This directory contains the directories full-email-server and printer-server. These each contain a Dockerfile, an entrypoint script, and a README file describing how the entrypoint script converts a blank linux container to the required server, and how to use the server once it is finished. The documentation also describes how to reconfigure the servers. 
## Creating the server images
To create docker images from these directories, cd into them and run the command

    docker build . -t <name_of_image>
Use the following command to verify that the image was added:

    docker image ls
## Adding the images to gns3
To add these images as templates in gns3, click on the "browse end devices" button on the bar on the right (the button with the picture of a desktop monitor). Next, in the popup window, click on the bottom border of the popup, where it says "New template". This will create another popup window. In this window, click the bubble titled "Manually create a new template". This will create another window, which will have categories of options on the left. Select docker at the bottom left, and go to docker containers. In the panel this brings up, click the 'new' button. This will bring up yet another window, with a dropdown menu. Select the image of the name you selected earlier in the dropdown menu. Click next. Choose a name for the gns3 template (this does not need to be the same as the image name). Click next until the window closes. If you press the browse end devices button again, you should see the template you just created, and you can add it to your network by dragging and dropping it in. The email server and printer server may not function properly if they are not connected to a DNS-enabled router.
